---
title: "An honest work history"
date: "2024-01-31"
visible: true
---

## Retail, customer service agent and cashier

Aged 16 - 21. My first job. 21 hours a week, plus extra at Christmas and during summer holidays. Straight in at the deep end. I liked working. I worked on the till, I enjoyed when the shop was busy and the day would pass quickly. I mostly disliked the customer service. The company had a very strict return policy and I often felt that customers were justified when they'd get angry, which was frequently. I didn't like being placed in the middle, with no real power to do anything. At Christmas, I'd work so many hours, I'd come home and frequently go straight to bed. The company paid minimum wage, most of us got the minimum amount allowed by law. But because I was just a kid, and my parents were gracious enough not to charge me rent, every month I got paid, it felt like I had won the lottery. I squirreled alot away to pay for college but even now, with a proper job paying a good few multiples of minimum wage its likely that I have less discretionary spending money each month. I liked the comradery of retail, most people in there were close. The stakes were low and any issues were left in the store. I miss that sometimes.

## Secretary

Aged 20. The summer before my third year at university, I spent the summer working as a secretary in a medical practice at a local university. I was preparing to head for a year of study abroad in France and was trying to earn as much money as possible to pay for it. I was still working my retail job, but the medical practice was only open for limited hours during the week, so it suited me perfectly. I did anything that needed to be done, but mostly I answered the phone and transcribed patient notes, booked in and welcomed patients as they arrived for their appointments. It was a very relaxed atmosphere and I thought it a walk in the park compared to working in retail. Evidentally, not all money is earned equally.

## Intern, Bank

Aged 21. My first career related job was an internship in the last year of my studies. I found it hard to get the internship, I think its still hard now for juniors sadly, so I was grateful to get in somewhere. It was a six month internship at an old school bank. I worked on a few different projects and everyone I worked with was wonderfully gracious to me. At that age, the list of unknown unknowns is practically infinite but I felt I made some useful contributions. Overall though, I didn't like it. I couldn't pinpoint it at the time but I disliked the environment and worried that I'd made a bad career decision. I don't think a bank like that is a good place for a twenty two year old. I elected not to apply to work there after college. Even now, almost ten years later, it doesn't appeal to me.

## Junior Developer

Aged 22 - 24. Fintech startup. My first real job. I worked remotely for a really small fintech startup based in London. The company was bootstrapped finance wise, so it was a carefully constructed tech team. I worked as a full stack web developer, picking up php, react and a few other technologies that I would go on to use throughout my career. It was a wonderful job with a handful of great people. Almost never felt like work. An almost total lack of meetings that I would envy down the line but didn't realise at the time. They fired the CTO for reasons that were never made clear to us and handled it terribly. I thought very well of of him. The team fractured after he left and I left not long after.

## Developer

Aged 24 - 26. Digital agency. I moved to London and got a job with a digital agency shortly afterwards. A creative young bunch, I was excited for something different. The work was tough and the pay not great, but I enjoyed my first year there immensely. The agency was more creatively minded than technology focused but there was lots of opportunity and it was full of talented individuals. We all got along well and would socialise frequently after work. It was the first work environment where I felt I could be totally myself. We ate out all the time, watched the football world cup in the office, took a trip together to Portugal, drank tequila around the bars of east London. It felt like family. But in my first real lesson in keeping a healthy separation between life and work, the company rather imploded in ways I didn't understand. I stayed on afterwards, but it was never the same. I grew increasingly uncomfortable with the new dynamic of the company and probably stayed on longer than was healthy in an attempt to get back to what it had been. I left in the summer of 2019 and felt very sad doing so.

## Senior Developer

Aged 26 - 27. Fintech startup. I went to a growing London fintech startup. The place was fast paced and dynamic and you could feel it. They hired well and everyone in the dev team was extremely intelligent. I liked that. It was the most enjoyable place I've worked on a pure technical level. Not long after starting there, I had some personal issues and decided to move home to Dublin. The company was great, and offered me the option to stay on as a contractor. The CTO in particular was notably brilliant. I respect him alot for that. Work went well back in Dublin, but after another few months they couldn't make the multi country contracting work for accounting reasons, and had to terminate my contract. It's the only time I didn't leave a work situation of my own volition, and it felt slightly discombombulating, although again my boss handled it graciously. They were acquired a few years later, and I was delighted for all of them.

## Senior Front End Developer

Aged 27 - 30. Gifting startup. Not too long back in Dublin, I decided to look for an in-person job. I generally prefer working remotely, but thought working in person might be a good way to integrate back into the city. I interviewed in their office and accepted an offer to start the day after the first covid lockdown started. I worked there for over three years, I never ended up working from the office. I was the third hire for the development team. I was the only front-end engineer, so there plenty to be getting on with. I learned alot. The company was chaotic, for good and bad. I liked the development team, which was small initially. They handled an insane volume of work with grace. There were lots of late nights and very tight deadlines. There were some rather questionable pushes directly to master. It wasn't always easy accepting the correct levels of stress. Judging when to make their problems your problems. They raised a bunch of money and hired alot more people. We built new cool things. Everything seemed positive initially. Not long after, when the market dictated, they laid off a bunch of people they, for the mostpart, had only recently hired. They did it by email, which left everyone remaining somewhat morally dejected. I left not long after, handing in my notice to go travelling, for what was initially supposed to be a few months but ended up being most of a year. I felt like a break. A sharpening of the axe, before catapulting into whatever life changes would accompany the transition from my twenties into my thirties.
